# Getting Started with Simple VIVO

To start using Simple VIVO to manage data in your VIVO, you will need the following:

1. A VIVO to use for data management.  VIVO is typically deployed at the organizational level, much like a web server.  Simple VIVO is used to manage the data in an existing VIVO.  The existing VIVO may be "empty" (as delivered VIVO, has a small amount of data pertaining to countries, states and territories of the United States, and data about its own definitions). Simple VIVO can also be used with VIVO Vagrant, a VIVO which can be installed on your local machine.
Your VIVO must allow the VIVO SPARQL API to be used.  By default, this is turned off.  Your system administrator 
will need to turn it on and proved you with a username and password for you to use to manage data in your VIVO.
1. You will need to be able to run Python from a command line.  If this is new to you, a system administrator can 
help you prepare your machine, and show you how. To. Use the command line.
1. You will need to have Simple VIVO installed on your machine.  This is very simple to do.  Once Python is 
installed, you can type: pip install simple-VIVO 
1. You will need to edit the Simple VIVO configuration file sv.cfg to provide four pieces of information:
    1. The URL of your VIVO SPARQL API.  Your system administrator will have this value.
    1. The username required to access your VIVO SPARQL
    1. The password required to access your VIVO SPARQL API
    1. The URI pattern you would like Simple VIVO to use when created new URI (see below)

With these things in place, you are ready to manage data in VIVO using spreadsheets.

## URI patterns

In VIVO, everything has a URI, a Uniform Resource Identifier.  Simple VIVO can be used to create new things in 
your VIVO, adding grants, or people, or dates, or educational background.  Everything that is added will have its 
own URI.  Simple VIVO makes URI that look like:

    PatternNumber

Where pattern is a pattern you supply, and Number is a random number generated by Simple VIVO for each new thing 
it creates.  Simple VIVO checks to make sure the number it is create
One is not already in use in your VIVO.

Your pattern should like `http://yourvivourl/individual/n`

Let's looks at each part of the pattern and see what options might exist for you

`http://` This is required.  All VIVO URI are addresses on the semantic web.  

`yourvivourl`  Many organizations have VIVO URLs that look like `VIVO.school.edu` or something similar. Your 
system administrator can provide the URL of your VIVO.

`individual`  This is the VIVO default.  Some VIVO sites use alternate words.  Your system administrator can 
tell you what word is used at your site.

`n`  This is the default.  You can use any word or letter you like.  You may prefer that dates have uri with 
the word date.  Person might be used for uri for people.  

Let's put all the pieces go ether in an example.

Example:  The University of Florida has a VIVO at `http://VIVO.ufl.edu`.  They use the word individual.  They 
also have all their VIVO uri starting with n.  Their uri pattern for all their Simple VIVO work is 

    http://VIVO.ufl.edu/individual/n

Simple VIVO will make uri that look like `http://VIVO.ufl.edu/individual/n883882`

Example 2:  mythical university has a VIVO at `http://profiles.mythical.org`.  They use the word "u"  to refer to 
all uri in their system.  They use different prefixes for uri referring to different things.

    http://profiles.mythical.org/u/date is the prefix they use for dates
    http://profiles.mythical.org/u/grant is the prefix they use for grants

And so on

Each uri prefix is put in the config used to manage each type of thing.  

Simple VIVO will make uri. That look like `http://profiles.mythical.org/u/date774883` for a date, 
and `http://profiles.mythical.org/u/grant884001` for a grant.

## Testing your set up

Once you have all the pieces in place --  a VIVO, Python, Simple VIVO and the four parameters in your `sv.cfg` file, 
you can test your setup by going to a command line, and typing:

     python sv.py --test

`sv.py` is the name of the Simple VIVO program.  

The word `python` is required.  It tells the system "I'm asking you to run a Python program and here's the name"

The `--test` command line parameter tells Simple VIVO that you would like to run the test to see that Simple 
VIVO is set up correctly.

Simple VIVO will respond with

All tests pass.  Good to go!

Or it will respond with one or more error messages.  The most common errors have to do with specification of 
the configuration file for accessing your VIVO SPARQL API.  In some cases, your VIVO may not be accepting 
connections, or your username and password may not be authorized, or your uri pattern may be invalid.  
Work with your system administrator to get VIVO set up properly and the parameters needed to access VIVO set up 
properly in your sv.crg file.

## Tests passed and good to go

With tests passed, you are ready to use Simple VIVO.  Please read the introduction to Simple VIVO that follows, 
and then try one or more examples.


